---
layout: post
title: Erlang rig in Emacs
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 14 Oct 2008 - Atlanta

So I finally got a bit of time to get back to Erlang, and caught up on Kevin Smith's screencasts.  Watching him work with flymake enabled reminded me that when I set up his emacs/erlang rig earlier, I never got flymake to work.  Well, I finally did, so thought I'd share my changes.

Looking at 'git diff' I see I changed erlang_mode_config.el with my paths to Erlang stuffies:

<pre>
-(add-to-list 'load-path "/opt/lib/erlang/lib/tools-2.6.1/emacs")
+(add-to-list 'load-path "/opt/local/lib/erlang/lib/tools-2.6.1/emacs")
 (require 'erlang-start)
 (setq erlang-indent-level 2)
-(add-to-list 'exec-path "/opt/bin")
-(setq erlang-root-dir "/opt")
+(add-to-list 'exec-path "/opt/local/lib/erlang/bin")
+(setq erlang-root-dir "/opt/local/lib/erlang")
</pre>

Now, on to flymake_config.el, where I had another path change b/c I didn't put things in exactly the same place on my machine.

<pre>
-    (list "~/emacs/flymake/bin/eflymake" (list local-file))))
+    (list "~/dev/erlang/kevsmith/emacs/flymake/bin/eflymake" (list local-file))))
</pre>

Then, to recompile the .elc files, I ran this:

<pre>
emacs -q --no-site-file -batch -eval "(add-to-list 'load-path \".\")" -f batch-byte-compile *.el
</pre>

The same path changes were required in eflymake script, on the top line.

<pre>
-#!/opt/bin/escript
+#!/opt/local/lib/erlang/bin/escript
</pre>

Of course, the thing to do would be to modify these files to have one place for these settings to reside, and be more easily customizable for all.  But since I have things working, I want to get back to coding.  I hope to feel like before this was like 'coding in the dark.'  Off to code...
