---
layout: post
title: Mac File Limit stuffs
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 27 Jul 2009 - en route ATL -> BOS

Like everyone else who does moderately sophisticated server development, and especially the ones using Erlang, I hit the file descriptor limit for Mac OS X.  I was hackng on "Dynomite":http://wiki.github.com/cliffmoon/dynomite, testing the Membership2 branches' bootstrap module, which moves files from one node to another during a join event.  Erlang runs everything as lightweight threads, and if sockets are involved, they're using file descriptors from the OS.  The default on my MacBook was insanity-low, at 256.  The solution is usually to:

<pre>
% ulimit -n 1024
</pre>

or some number of your choosing, like 512 or so.  Fine, did that.  But my open shells still had the old limit, and in addition, I wanted to make the change permanent.  So, reading "here":http://serverfault.com/questions/15564/where-are-the-default-ulimits-specified-on-os-x-10-5, "here":http://www.nabble.com/max-fds-for-epoll-incorrectly-reduced-to-FD_SETSIZE-td22139560.html, "here":http://metajack.im/2008/09/23/file-descriptors-are-yummy-or-common-pitfalls-of-ejabberd/, and "here":http://www.macosxhints.com/article.php?story=200311151254441, I did the following (from the first article):

<pre>
/etc/launchd.conf

limit maxfiles 1024 unlimited
</pre>

A coworker with a similar MacBook reported being able to use 8192 but I couldn't get that to work.  When I went above 1024 in the launchd.conf file, any call to erl with -name or -sname made epmd hang.  So things are working now, and I'm moving on.  Hope this was useful to someone.